hi this is pressure Locker can you solve
this math problem which has gone viral
this problem was asked to
eight-year-olds in Vietnam place the
numbers one through nine using each
number exactly once to make a valid
equation the numbers should be written
in the empty boxes and the expression
should be read from left to right
wrapping around the corners the boxes
which contain the semicolons are the
same thing as the mathematical operation
of division can you figure this out you
need to put the numbers one through nine
so that the entire expression equals 66
this is not an easy problem and you
should give it a try before watching the
video I'm going to explain how you can
come up with the solution let's think
about this problem logically when we
want to work out a solution we should
first make the step of writing the
expression in the normal way we write
mathematical expressions as a single
line from left to right this will make
it easier to put in the numbers the next
thing we want to think about is how easy
it would be to guess a solution how many
ways are there to put the numbers 1
through 9 in these nine boxes well we
can put nine different numbers in the
first box so there are nine
possibilities for the first number that
we can put in once we do that there are
eight possibilities we can put in the
second box these are any of the eight
numbers we haven't put in the first box
the third box will only have seven
possibilities because we've used two
possibilities for the first two boxes
continuing the logic we would have one
less possibility for each box until we
get to the last box which will be forced
by the numbers we picked in the previous
boxes in total there are nine factorial
or 360 2880 possibilities that's a lot
of possibilities to try and work through
just by brute force and therefore we're
not
going to figure out a solution just by
simply guessing and checking every
single possibility so let's work out the
solution logically I'm first going to
remove these boxes and then I'm going to
put parentheses because we need to
respect the order of operations anytime
there's a multiplication or division
that needs to be evaluated before we do
the corresponding addition to the left
or the right so now I was thinking this
is how I came up with the solution I
thought well this problem was asked to
eight-year-olds so maybe there's a
really easy solution so what if I just
wrote the numbers 1 through 9 in order
from left to right this actually got
pretty close to the answer of 66 this
got to about 53 I thought well what if I
wrote the numbers in descending order so
I wrote them from 9 to 1 quite
surprisingly I again got pretty close to
the answer so from here I thought maybe
I can modify this expression to get to a
result of 66 so I experimented a little
bit and what came to my mind was I
thought about this 8 7 and this 4 I
thought maybe I could have 8 divided by
4 and I would switch the 7 out but that
didn't really work so then I thought
maybe I could switch the 3 numbers what
if I have just move these 3 numbers 1
over to the right in a circle so I would
have 4 and then 8 and then 7 well if I
was dividing 4 by 8 then I would need to
make one more adjustment let's move
these three numbers around so I would
have 1 times 3 divided by 2 when I did
that I got to an answer of 55 the good
thing is this is a whole number and the
second good thing is that it's only 11
less than our answer that we want of 66
and then I looked at the expression I
said oh this is easy if I switch the 6
and the 5 I'm going to increase
the product twelve by five going to
twelve by six I'm going to increase this
by twelve and then when I replace the
six by the five I'm going to reduce it
by one so that's exactly going to
increase the entire expression by eleven
and that gets us to our answer of 66 so
here is one solution to our problem in
fact after I wrote out this solution I
realize one more thing there are in fact
multiple solutions that we can get once
we figure out one answer how is this
well notice that we can switch the
numbers that are being added and it will
have it will generate another solution
we'll still get the same answer of 66
but we just put the two numbers in
different positions similarly we can
switch the two numbers which are being
multiplied that won't have any effect on
our final expression so that will give
us another possible answer when we write
the numbers in the grid of course once
we do that we can switch the two numbers
which are being added so anytime you
come up with an answer you can actually
generate a total of four answers by
placing the numbers in different
positions because certain operations are
commutative that is it doesn't matter
which way you evaluate them addition and
multiplication are commutative but these
aren't the only answers I looked online
and some people had posted other ways
that you could get 266 and these are
completely different arrangements of
numbers and each time you have these
remember you could generate other
solutions by swapping the two numbers
which are being added or swapping the
two numbers which are being multiplied
so how many solutions are there in total
I don't know if you come up with an
answer please leave a comment or if you
just come up with other solutions and be
very interesting to see what the
solutions are somewhere I read the
answer is a hundred and twenty and this
seems to make sense because it should be
a multiple of four if someone said there
are say a hundred and one answers that
wouldn't really make sense because
anytime we generate one answer
we know that they come in sets of four
so I think there are a hundred and
twenty solutions but I don't know
exactly so if you figure it out please
provide a link leave a comment and let
us know what you come up with I hope you
like this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
also catch me on social media at
pressure Locker and if you like this
video please check out my books I've
written several books about math puzzles
and interesting topics just like the one
in this video you can also check out my
book about game theory thanks for
watching